---
title: XR-046 Display Name and Gamerpic
author: mwester
ms.topic: conceptual
kindex: XR-046 Display Name and Gamerpic
description: TBD
security: public
---

Version 1.1, 1/1/2022   


# XR-046: Display Name and Gamerpic \*

On Xbox consoles, titles must use the Gamertag as their primary display name.

Based on design choice titles can choose between the player’s modern gamertag or their classic gamertag. Modern gamertag is available in the GDK and classic gamertag is available in both ERA and the GDK.

On non console platforms, while not required, we recommend you use the Xbox network player’s gamertag in the appropriate locations within the game title’s experience.

The gamertag used must be displayed correctly in the title based on the gamertag type used:

* **Modern Gamertag:**  Display all 16 characters of the unique modern gamertag, which includes up to 12 characters of the modern gamertag, followed by # and the suffix number (if present). For example: Major Nelson (no suffix present) or Major Nelson#881. If modern gamertags are used, all Unicode character ranges available for modern gamertags must be supported. For more modern gamertag information and best practices visit the GDK development documentation article 'Overview of modern gamertags'
* **Classic Gamertag:**  Correctly display all 15 characters of the classic gamertag. Classic gamertags include only ASCII characters a–z, A–Z, 0–9, comma (,), and space (ASCII character 0x20). For example: Major Nelson

In the GDK these items are returned using the **XUserGetGamertag** API.  In ERA the gamertag is obtained using the **GetUserProfileAsync** API.

> **Note**: Unicode diacritic support required for Thai and Devanagari, both languages supported by Modern Gamertags, frequently cause issues that are not caught until later stages of testing. If attempting to support Modern Gamertags in your game, plan and test for characters in these languages early.

## Certification Test Cases

>**046-01 Display Name and Gamerpic**  
>
>**Preparation**
>1. To change a gamertag, go to http://social.xbox.com/changegamertag and sign in with the account to change. Note that for all non-retail accounts the URI must be manually modified to indicate the sandbox that the test account resides in or sign-in will result in an error. For example, if the test account exists in the “XXXX.1” sandbox then manually construct the change gamertag URI to http://social.xbox.com/changegamertag?sbx=XXXX.1 to change the gamertag of that account.
>2. Create four test accounts for each of the four following names and change the gamertags on each test account to the following:  
>* **สริฐ众云网ень컴퓨터**  
>* **आचुथाΓώঅহঙぁゖァヺ**  
>* **нøÜsêþåЯЂў**  
>* **Ion**  
>
>**Test Steps**   
>1. Locate and view where gamertags are displayed within the title.
>2. Check to see how the user’s gamertag is displayed in all areas identified in Step [1].
>3. If the title displays users’ pictures, verify that the correct Microsoft account picture or gamerpic appears for each account.
>
>**Expected Result**  
>The user’s gamertag must be displayed correctly.
> 
>**Pass Examples**  
>1. The gamertag correctly shows the Unicode characters (including the auto-generated suffix) when using Modern Gamertag.
>2. The gamertag is correctly shown when using Classic Gamertag.
>
>**Fail Examples**
>1.	The gamertag does not show all Unicode characters correctly (including the auto-generated suffix) when using Modern Gamertag.
>2.	The gamertag is not correctly shown when using Classic Gamertag.
