---
title: XR-057 Unlocking Achievements
author: M-Stahl
ms.topic: conceptual
kindex: XR-057 Unlocking Achievements
description: TBD
security: public
---

Version 1.0, 9/1/2020


# XR-057: Unlocking Achievements \*

Titles must provide a way for a user to earn all achievements defined by the base title without being required to purchase additional in-title content.

Achievements must be unlocked through in-game actions, gameplay, and/or experiences.

Titles must not provide players alternative options that unlock achievements directly without corresponding gameplay activity. A non-exhaustive list of disallowed options:

* A real-money purchase

* In-game cheat codes, consoles, or menu options

These options may be used to reduce the difficulty of the gameplay required to unlock achievements.

## More Information

The intent of achievements is to award players based on their gameplay activity; not by making purchases or using in game 'cheats'. Whether or not achievements can be unlocked while cheats are active is a decision left to the title developer. As you look to apply this requirement, consider the following examples:

* An achievement for completing level 1 may be unlocked by a player who completes the level while using an infinite health cheat code. The player still had to complete the level.
An achievement for completing level 1 may not be unlocked by using a cheat code that unlocks level 2, as the player has not completed level 1.
* An achievement for starting level 2 may be unlocked for players who started level 2 by using a cheat code to unlock the level.
* A real-money purchase may not have the primary benefit of unlocking an achievement.
* Non-base Achievements can require content that is only unlocked by real-money purchases, but the act of purchasing the content may not be what unlocks the achievement.

## Certification Test Cases

**057-01 No Additional Purchases Required for Base Achievements**   

>
>**Test Steps**  
>1. Review the achievement descriptions on the base title.
>2. Verify that they do not require additional purchases or content.
>3. Gain all achievements.  
>
>**Expected Result**  
>All achievements can be gained without being required to purchase additional in-title content.  
>
>**Pass Examples**  
>1. All achievements can be gained without being required to purchase additional in-title content.
>2. No achievements require additional in-title content.  
>
>**Fail Examples**  
> 1. The user is required to purchase additional in-title content to unlock an achievement defined by the base title.