---
author: M-Stahl
title: XStoreUnregisterGameLicenseChanged
description: Unregisters the specified game license changed callback.
kindex: XStoreUnregisterGameLicenseChanged
ms.author: shanede
ms.topic: reference
edited: 02/10/2020
quality: good
security: public
applies-to: pc-gdk
---

# XStoreUnregisterGameLicenseChanged  

Unregisters the specified title license changed callback.  

## Syntax  
  
```cpp
bool XStoreUnregisterGameLicenseChanged(  
         XStoreContextHandle storeContextHandle,  
         XTaskQueueRegistrationToken token,  
         bool wait  
)  
```  
  
### Parameters  
  
*storeContextHandle* &nbsp;&nbsp;\_In\_  
Type: XStoreContextHandle  
  
The store context handle for the user returned by [XStoreCreateContext](xstorecreatecontext.md).    
  
*token* &nbsp;&nbsp;\_In\_  
Type: [XTaskQueueRegistrationToken](../../xtaskqueue/structs/xtaskqueueregistrationtoken.md)  
  
A token identifying the callback to unregister.  
  
*wait* &nbsp;&nbsp;\_In\_  
Type: bool  
  
Wait for any pending event callbacks to complete.    
  
### Return value
Type: bool
  
Returns false if *wait* is false and the unregister is pending. Returns true otherwise.    
  
## Remarks  
  > [!NOTE]
> This function isn't safe to call on a time-sensitive thread. For more information, see [Time-sensitive threads](../../../../system/overviews/time-sensitive-threads.md).  
  
This function unregisters the callback function defined by [XStoreGameLicenseChangedCallback](xstoregamelicensechangedcallback.md). You will use the same **XTaskQueueRegistrationToken** generated by [XStoreRegisterGameLicenseChanged](xstoreregistergamelicensechanged.md) to unregister the callback function. In order to avoid a memory leak each function registered with [XStoreRegisterGameLicenseChanged](xstoreregistergamelicensechanged.md) must be unregistered by **XStoreUnregisterGameLicenseChanged** when the callback function is no longer needed.

See [XStoreCreateContext](xstorecreatecontext.md) for a usage example.  
  
  
## Requirements  
  
**Header:** XStore.h (included in XGameRuntime.h)
  
**Library:** xgameruntime.lib
  
**Supported platforms:** Windows, Xbox One family consoles and Xbox Series consoles  
  
## See also  
[XStore](../xstore_members.md)  
[XStoreRegisterGameLicenseChanged](xstoreregistergamelicensechanged.md)  
[XStoreGameLicenseChangedCallback](xstoregamelicensechangedcallback.md)  